Ingredients:

500g lean minced lamb
1 medium onion, finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, crushed
1½ tsp dried oregano
1tsp dried mint
2 bay leaves
1 cinnamon stick
2tbsp plain flour
100ml red wine
400ml lamb stock
400g canned chopped tomatoes
2 tbsp tomato purée
2 medium courgettes, trimmed, halved lengthways and sliced
2 medium aubergines, each about 275g, cut into 1cm rounds, ends discarded
1 tbsp olive oil
For the white sauce:
500ml semi-skimmed milk
4 tbsp cornflour
2 bay leaves
½ tsp grated nutmeg
20g parmesan

Method

For the lamb mix: Put the lamb, onion, garlic, oregano, mint, bay leaves and cinnamon in a large 
non-stick saucepan or sauté pan and cook over a medium heat for 5 minutes. Keep stirring with a 
wooden spoon to break up the meat.

Stir in the flour and season with salt and plenty of freshly ground black pepper, then add the wine, 
lamb stock, tomatoes and tomato purée. Bring everything to a simmer, then continue to cook for 10 minutes, 
stirring occasionally.

Add the courgettes and cook for a further 5 minutes until the lamb is tender and the sauce is thick. 
Remove the bay leaves and cinnamon stick.

Preheat the grill to its hottest setting. Arrange the aubergine slices in a single layer on a large 
baking tray, brushing them on both sides with oil. Place the tray under the grill and cook for 5 minutes. 
Turn the slices over and cook them on the other side for 5 minutes until they’re softened and lightly browned. 
Set the aubergines aside.

For the white sauce: Preheat the oven to 200C/180C fan/gas 6. Just before the mince is ready, make the 
white sauce. Mix 4 tablespoons of the milk with the cornflour in a small bowl until smooth and put to one side. 
Pour the rest of the milk into a medium non-stick saucepan and add the bay leaves and half the grated nutmeg. 
Heat gently for 5 minutes until almost at a simmer, stirring regularly. Remove the bay leaves and whisk in the 
cornflour mixture, then cook for 3-4 minutes until thickened and smooth, stirring constantly. Remove from the 
heat and season with salt and lots of freshly ground black pepper.

Spoon a third of the meat sauce into 6 individual ovenproof dishes, then add a layer of aubergines. 
Repeat the layers twice more, finishing with the aubergines. Pour over the white sauce, making sure it 
covers in an even layer, then sprinkle with the reserved nutmeg and parmesan cheese. Bake for 20-25 minutes 
until the moussakas are golden brown and bubbling.